Reports on payment card intrusions and theft are often fragmentary.
The focus is on various pieces of the attack and less about capturing
the end-to-end cycle of compromise, data theft, illicit sale and use.
The full scope of attacker activity traditionally occurs beyond the
view of any one group of investigators. Incident response teams may
have visibility into the technical aspects of the breach itself, while
cyber crime researchers monitor the movement and sale of stolen
data in the criminal underground.
FireEye Threat Intelligence and iSIGHT Partners recently combined
our research to illuminate the activities of one particular threat group:
FIN6. This combined insight has provided unique and extensive
visibility into FIN6’s operations, from initial intrusion to the methods
used to navigate the victims’ networks to the sale of the stolen
payment card data in an underground marketplace. In this report,
we describe FIN6’s activities and tactics, techniques and procedures
(TTPs), and provide a glimpse into the criminal ecosystem that
supports the “payoff” for their operations. 

FIN6 is a cyber criminal group intent on stealing payment card data
for monetization. In 2015, FireEye Threat Intelligence supported several
Mandiant Consulting investigations in the hospitality and retail sectors
where FIN6 actors had aggressively targeted and compromised pointof-sale (POS) systems, making off with millions of payment card
numbers. Through iSIGHT, we learned that the payment card numbers
stolen by FIN6 were sold on a “card shop” — an underground criminal
marketplace used to sell or exchange payment card data. Figure 1
illustrates what we believe to be FIN6’s typical operational methodology.

It’s not entirely clear how FIN6 initially compromises
victims. In Mandiant’s investigations, FIN6 already
possessed valid credentials to each victim network
and used those credentials to initiate further intrusion
activity.1
 In one case, GRABNEW malware was found on a
victim computer that FIN6 later used in its operations. We
suspect that the computer was originally compromised with
GRABNEW by a separate threat actor, who used GRABNEW
to capture valid user credentials. FIN6 may have obtained
those credentials (through purchase or trade) and used them
for its operations.

FIN6’s use of GRABNEW, or credentials collected by
GRABNEW, is not altogether surprising and possibly
points to a cyber crime support ecosystem that opens
doors to threat actors capable of lateral movement
and more damaging activities. Previously, we observed
another FIN group — FIN2 — leverage several existing
Citadel compromises to deploy their custom tools
and expand within a network to compromise payment
card systems. Likewise, Proofpoint recently observed
GRABNEW variants leading to downloads of POS
malware known as AbaddonPOS.

All threat groups generally follow a broad
operational framework known as the
Attack Lifecycle. While the phases of
the Attack Lifecycle — from initial compromise
to privilege escalation to maintaining presence
and completing the mission — are remarkably
consistent, the specific TTPs used vary widely
based on a group’s skills, motivations and
ultimate goals.
After gaining access with valid credentials,
we observed FIN6 leveraging components of
the Metasploit Framework to establish their
foothoold. For example, in one case, FIN6 used
a Metasploit PowerShell module to download
and execute shellcode and to set up a local
listener that would execute shellcode received
over a specific port. Similarly, FIN6 used at
least two downloaders called HARDTACK and
SHIPBREAD (apparent variations on Metasploit
payloads) to establish backdoor access to the
compromised environment. Both of these tools
are configured to connect to remote command
and control (CnC) servers and download and
execute shellcode. FIN6 generally used either
registry run keys or Windows scheduled tasks
in order to establish persistence for these tools.
Once their accesses were established with
preferred backdoors, FIN6 used additional
public utilities such as Windows Credentials
Editor for privilege escalation and credential
harvesting. Additional privilege escalation
tools exploited Microsoft Windows
vulnerabilities in an attempt to compromise
privileged account credentials on various
hosts. The tools targeted CVE-2013-3660,
CVE-2011-2005 and CVE-2010-4398, all
of which could allow local users to access
kernel-level privileges.2 Continuing their use
of Metasploit-related tools, FIN6 also used
Metasploit’s PsExec NTDSGRAB module
to obtain a copy of the Active Directory
database (ntds.dit). Access to this file would
allow them to extract password hashes from
the file and crack them offline.

All threat groups generally follow a broad
operational framework known as the
Attack Lifecycle. While the phases of
the Attack Lifecycle — from initial compromise
to privilege escalation to maintaining presence
and completing the mission — are remarkably
consistent, the specific TTPs used vary widely
based on a group’s skills, motivations and
ultimate goals.
After gaining access with valid credentials,
we observed FIN6 leveraging components of
the Metasploit Framework to establish their
foothoold. For example, in one case, FIN6 used
a Metasploit PowerShell module to download
and execute shellcode and to set up a local
listener that would execute shellcode received
over a specific port. Similarly, FIN6 used at
least two downloaders called HARDTACK and
SHIPBREAD (apparent variations on Metasploit
payloads) to establish backdoor access to the
compromised environment. Both of these tools
are configured to connect to remote command
and control (CnC) servers and download and
execute shellcode. FIN6 generally used either
registry run keys or Windows scheduled tasks
in order to establish persistence for these tools.
Once their accesses were established with
preferred backdoors, FIN6 used additional
public utilities such as Windows Credentials
Editor for privilege escalation and credential
harvesting. Additional privilege escalation
tools exploited Microsoft Windows
vulnerabilities in an attempt to compromise
privileged account credentials on various
hosts. The tools targeted CVE-2013-3660,
CVE-2011-2005 and CVE-2010-4398, all
of which could allow local users to access
kernel-level privileges.2 Continuing their use
of Metasploit-related tools, FIN6 also used
Metasploit’s PsExec NTDSGRAB module
to obtain a copy of the Active Directory
database (ntds.dit). Access to this file would
allow them to extract password hashes from
the file and crack them offline.

In addition to collecting credentials, FIN6
used publicly available tools to map the
internal network and conduct reconnaissance
against Active Directory, Structured Query
Language (SQL) servers and NetBIOS. In
particular, during the reconnaissance phase
they gathered information on systems running
SQL instances, dumping schemas for multiple
databases and SQL user accounts. Specific
tools used by FIN6 included Microsoft’s
built-in SQL querying tool (osql.exe), Query
Express (a free, portable graphical SQL
client capable of connecting to Microsoft
SQL and Oracle databases) and AdFind, a
free command-line tool for querying Active
Directory. Over the course of one day, for
example, the group targeted more than
900 SQL servers to dump reconnaissance
information to support further operations.
Capitalizing on the acquired reconnaissance
data, FIN6 began lateral movement using
credentials stolen from various systems on
which they gathered usernames and password
hashes. They likely cracked these hashes
outside of the target’s network before using
multiple sets of domain admin credentials in
combination with remote command execution
tools such as PsExec and Remote Command
Executor (RemCom) throughout the rest of
the lateral movement phase.
To maintain presence and support interactive
access in the environment, FIN6 leveraged the
publicly available Plink command-line utility
(part of the PuTTY SSH and Telnet suite) to
create SSH tunnels to CnC servers under their
control. As shown in Figure 2, they used these
SSH tunnels to route Remote Desktop Protocol
(RDP) traffic and allow for interactive RDP
sessions with systems in the target network.
After locating POS systems within the
target’s environment, FIN6 deployed POS
malware that we call TRINITY (also known
as FrameworkPOS), with Scheduled Tasks
being used for persistence. TRINITY runs continuously and targets system processes not
listed in its accompanying process blacklist,
seeking data that matches payment card
track data. Once the malware identifies track
data, it copies and encodes it to a local file in
a subdirectory of the c:\windows\ directory
while attempting to conceal these files with
.dll or .chm extensions. In one particular
case — and as an example of scale — FIN6
compromised and deployed TRINITY on
around 2,000 systems, resulting in millions
of exposed cards.

Finally, to move the stolen payment card
data out of the environment, FIN6 used a
script to systematically iterate through a list
of compromised POS systems, copying the
harvested track data files to a numbered
“log” file before removing the original data
files. They then compressed the log files into
a ZIP archive and moved the archive through
the environment to an intermediary system
and then to a staging system. From the
staging system, they then copied the stolen
data to external CnC servers under their
control using the FTP command line utility.
In another case, FIN6 used an alternative
extraction method to upload payment card
data to a public file sharing service.

Using iSIGHT Partners’ collected
intelligence, we discovered that the
stolen payment card data from these
intrusions were sold in an underground card
shop. This particular shop is advertised on
multiple underground cyber crime forums and
has offered diverse criminals access to millions
of stolen payment cards on a regular basis.
This closes the loop on the “lifecycle” of cyber
criminal activity and exemplifies one of the
final stages of cyber crime actors monetizing
their stolen data.
We have identified stolen data from several of
FIN6’s victims being sold by this vendor as far
back as 2014. This connection means that data

stolen by FIN6 has almost certainly ended up in
the hands of fraud operators across the world,
as they buy and exploit payment cards from
the underground shop. In each case, the stolen
data began appearing in the shop within six
months of the FIN6 breach. While the amount
of data sold through the shop varies by breach,
in some cases more than 10 million cards
associated with a specific FIN6-linked breach
have been identified on the shop. After being
posted, much of the stolen card data is quickly
purchased for exploitation. Along with the
data we have linked to FIN6, this underground
shop has sold data from millions of other cards,
which may be linked to breaches perpetrated
by other threat actors. 

Our analysis of the data sold through this
underground vendor indicates that FIN6’s
compromises are highly profitable to the actors
involved, potentially resulting in extensive fraud
losses. For instance, in one FIN6-linked breach
the vendor was advertising nearly than 20
million cards. These cards were predominantly
from the United States and selling for an
average of $21. So the total return for the shop
— if all the data was sold at full price — could
have been about $400 million.
In reality, the shop would typically only make
a fraction of this figure since not all the data
would be sold (laundering stolen cards is
typically much harder than stealing them),
buyers want the newest data they can get (data
that has been on the shop for a while loses its
value) and the shop offers discounts based
on various criteria. Still, a fraction of $400
million is a significant sum. In turn, cyber
criminals purchasing the data would expect
to make more than they paid for the cards
by conducting fraudulent transactions using
those cards.
Not all of the data sold on this particular card
shop has been tied to an identified compromise
or specific cyber criminal group. Additionally, as
is often the case with prominent cyber criminal
vendors, it is not yet clear how the operators
of the underground site are linked to the actors
who steal the data the shop sells. The vendor
has sold large amounts of card data with
varied characteristics, so it is possible the shop
operators maintain relationships with more
than one data provider. FIN6 members could
include some of the operators behind this shop;
alternately, FIN6 could be selling stolen data to
the operators of this site.

Good threat intelligence comes from
a combination of factors. It requires
visibility into the threat landscape,
including both a broad view (the ability to
identify activity across a range of countries,
industries and organizations) and a deep view
(the ability to gather detailed information
about how threat actors operate). It also
requires skilled analysts who are able to
review, fuse and understand the available data.
In this case, the combined intelligence from
FireEye, Mandiant and iSIGHT intelligence
teams was able to not only identify malicious
activity aimed at stealing payment card
data, but also provide a detailed window
into that activity from compromise through
monetization of the stolen data.
The story of FIN6 shows how real-world threat
actors operate, providing a glimpse not only
into the technical details of the compromise,
but also into the human factor as well; namely,
the interactions between different criminals
or criminal groups, and how it is not just data
being bartered or sold in the underground, but
also tools, credentials and access.