COUNT ONE
           (Conspiracy to Commit Computer Intrusions)

     The Grand Jury charges:

                          OVERVIEW

     I.  At all times relevant to this Indictment, ZHU HUA

 (*ip), a/k/a "Afwar," a/k/a "CVNX," a/k/a "Alayos," a/k/a


"Godkiller," and ZHANG SHILONG      a/k/a "Baobeilong," 


a/k/a "Zhang Jianguo," a/k/a "Atreexp," the defendants, both of 

whom were nationals of the People's Republic of China ("China"),

were members of a hacking group operating in China known within 

the cyber security community as Advanced Persistent Threat 10
 
 (the "APT10 Group")', or alternatively as "Red Apollo," "CVNX," 

"Stone Panda," "MenuPass," and "POTASSIUM."

   2. From at least in or about 2006 up to and including in 

or about 2018, members of the APT10 Group, including ZHU HUA, 

a/k/a "Afwar," a/k/a "CVNX," a/k/a "Alayos," a/k/a "Godkiller," 

and ZHANG SHILONG, a/k/a "Baobeilong," a/k/a "Zhang Jianguo," 

a/k/a "Atreexp," the defendants, conducted extensive campaigns 

of global intrusions into computer systems. The defendants 

worked for Huaying Haitai Science and Technology Development 

Company ("Huaying Haitai") in Tianjin, China, and acted in 

association with the Chinese Ministry of State Security's 

Tianjin State Security Bureau.

   3. While the APT10 Group employed similar hacking tools 

and techniques over the course of its campaigns,. the APT10 

Group's hacking operations evolved over time, demonstrating 

advances in overcoming network defenses, victim selection, and 

tradecraft. Moreover, the APT10 Group utilized some of the same 

online facilities to initiate, facilitate, and execute its



1 APT is a designation given in the cyber security community to 
an individual or group that uses sophisticated techniques to 
exploit vulnerabilities in victim computer systems and employs 
an external command and control system to target a specific 
entity or range of entities and maintain a persistent presence 
on its targets' networks.


                  2
 
campaigns during the conspiracy, thereby reflecting the APT10 
Group's continuous and unrelenting effort, from in or about 2006 
up to and including in or about 2018, to steal technologies and 
other information of value to the conspiracy. For example, as 
detailed herein, the APT10 Group was engaged in at least two 
computer intrusion campaigns during the relevant time period, 
both aiming to steal, among other data, intellectual property 
and confidential business or technological information:
      a. First, beginning in or about 2006, members of the 
APT10 Group, including ZHU HUA, a/k/a "Afwar," a/k/a "CVNX," 
a/k/a "Alayos," a/k/a "Godkiller," and ZHANG SHILONG, a/k/a 
"Baobeilong," a/k/a "Zhang Jianguo," a/k/a "Atreexp," the 
defendants, engaged in an intrusion campaign to obtain 
unauthorized access to the computers and computer networks of 
commercial and defense technology companies and U.S. Government 
agencies in order to steal information and data concerning a 
number of technologies (the "Technology Theft Campaign"). 
Specifically, the APT10 Group obtained unauthorized access to 
the computers of more than 45 such entities based in at least 12 
states, including Arizona, California, Connecticut, Florida, 
Maryland, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Virginia, 
and Wisconsin. Through the Technology Theft Campaign, the APT10

                   3
 
Group stole hundreds of gigabytes of sensitive data and targeted 
the computers of victim companies involved in a diverse array of 
commercial activity, industries, and technologies, including 
aviation, space and satellite technology, manufacturing 
technology, pharmaceutical technology, oil and gas exploration 
and production technology, communications technology, computer 
processor technology, and maritime technology.
     b. Second, beginning at least in or about 2014,
members of the APT10 Group, including ZHU and ZHANG, engaged in 
an intrusion campaign to obtain unauthorized access to the 
computers and computer networks of managed service providers 
("MSPs") for businesses and governments around the world (the 
"MSP Theft Campaign"). MSPs are companies that remotely manage 
their clients' information technology infrastructure, including 
by providing computer servers, storage, networking, consulting 
and information technology support. The APT10 Group targeted 
MSPs in order to leverage the MSPs' networks to gain 
unauthorized access to the computers and computer networks of 
the MSPs' clients and steal, among other data, intellectual 
property and confidential business data on a global scale. For 
example, through the MSP Theft Campaign, the APT10 Group 
obtained unauthorized access to the computers of an MSP that had

                4
 
offices in the Southern District of New York and compromised the 
data of that MSP and certain of its clients located in at least 
12 countries, including Brazil, Canada, Finland, France,
Germany, India, Japan, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Arab 
Emirates, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Those 
compromised clients included companies that were involved in a 
diverse array of commercial activity, industries, and 
technologies, including banking and finance, telecommunications 
and consumer electronics, medical equipment, packaging, 
manufacturing, consulting, healthcare, biotechnology, 
automotive, oil and gas exploration, and mining.
     c. In addition, the APT10 Group compromised more
than 40 computers in order to steal confidential data from those 
systems belonging to the United States Department of the Navy 
(the "Navy"), including the personally identifiable information 
of more than 100,000 Navy personnel.
        MEANS AND METHODS OF THE CONSPIRACY
          The Technology Theft Campaign 
  4. Members of the APT10 Group, including ZHU HUA, a/k/a
"Afwar," a/k/a "CVNX," a/k/a "Alayos," a/k/a "Godkiller," and 
ZHANG SHILONG, a/k/a "Baobeilong," a/k/a "Zhang Jianguo," a/k/a 
"Atreexp," the defendants, engaged in the following stages of

                  5
 
activity to orchestrate and manage the computer intrusions 
committed during the Technology Theft Campaign, which are 
generally summarized below:
      a. First, members of the APT10 Group used a
technique known as "spear phishing" to introduce malicious 
software ("malware") onto targeted computers. Members of the 
conspiracy sent customized emails to intended targets with 
attached documents and files that would surreptitiously install 
malware if opened. In order to trick the recipients of the 
spear phishing emails into opening the attachments of the emails 
that installed the malware, the emails purported to be sent from 
legitimate email addresses, when in fact the emails were sent by 
members of the conspiracy. In addition, the content of the 
email messages and the filenames of the attachments appeared to 
be legitimate and contain information of interest to the 
recipients. For example, one spear phishing email purported to 
originate from an email address associated with a victim company 
("Victim-1") involved in communications technology, when it 
actually originated from a different account, which was 
unaffiliated with Victim-1 and logged in from a computer



                   6
 
assigned an Internet protocol ("IP") address2 located in Tianjin, 

China under the control of the APT10 Group. That email, which 

was sent to employees of another victim company ("Victim-2") 

involved in helicopter manufacturing, had the subject line "C17 

Antenna problems," a malicious Microsoft Word attachment named 

"12-204 Side Load Testing.doc," and stated the following:

"Please see the attached the files." When the attachment named 

"12-204 Side Load Testing.doc" was opened, malware was installed 

on the computer of Victim-2. By using these spear phishing 

methods, the conspirators intended to and did cause the 

recipients of the emails to open the attachments without 

arousing suspicion as to the source of the email or its 

attachments.

     b. Second, once a recipient of a spear phishing

email opened the attachment to the email, the attachment 

installed malware on the victim's computer. The malware 

typically included customized variants of a remote access Trojan 

("RAT") including one known as "Poison Ivy" and keystroke 

loggers, which are programs that surreptitiously recorded


2 Each electronic device or computer resource connected to the 
Internet must be assigned a unique IP address so that 
communications from or directed to that electronic device are 
routed properly.



                7
 
computer keystrokes to steal usernames and passwords as the user 
of the victim systems typed them. The malware was programmed to 
automatically communicate with domains that were assigned IP 
addresses of computers under the control of members of the APT10 
Group, allowing them to maintain visibility and persistent 
remote access to the compromised computers over the Internet.
In particular, the APT10 Group used dynamic Domain Name System 
("DNS") service providers to host their malicious domains, 
including a provider located in the Southern District of New 
York, which allowed the APT10 Group to route the pre-programmed 
malicious domains in their malware to different IP addresses of 
computers under their control. This mode of operation enabled 
the APT10 Group to frequently and rapidly change the IP 
addresses associated with their malicious domains without having 
to adjust the malware or domains already on a victim's 
computers, providing the APT10 Group with operational
flexibility and persistence, as well as helping them avoid 
detection by bypassing network security filters that might block 
identified malicious IP addresses.
    c. Third, after the malware was successfully
installed, the APT10 Group downloaded additional malware and


               8
 
tools to compromised computer systems in order to further 
compromise the victim's computers.
        d. Fourth, after the APT10 Group had gained
unauthorized access to a victim's computers and identified data 
of interest on those computers, the APT10 Group collected the 
relevant files and other information from the compromised 
computers and exfiltrated the stolen files and information in 
encrypted archives to computers under their control.
    5. Over the course of the Technology Theft Campaign, the 
defendants and their coconspirators successfully obtained 
unauthorized access to at least approximately 90 computers 
belonging to, among others, commercial and defense technology 
companies and U.S. Government agencies located in at least 12 
states, and stole hundreds of gigabytes of sensitive data and 
information from their computer systems, including from at least 
the following victims:
       a.  seven companies involved in aviation, space 
and/or satellite technology;
       b.  three companies involved in communications 
technology;



                        9
       c.  three companies involved in manufacturing 
advanced electronic systems and/or laboratory analytical 
instruments;
       d.  a company involved in maritime technology;
       e.  a company involved in oil and gas drilling, 
production, and processing;
       f.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
("NASA") Goddard Space Center; and
       g.  The NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
    6. In addition to the above victims, the defendants and 
their coconspirators successfully obtained unauthorized access 
to computers belonging to at least 25 other technology-related 
companies involved in, among other things, industrial factory 
automation, radar technology, oil exploration, information 
technology services, pharmaceutical manufacturing, and computer 
processor technology, as well as the U.S. Department of Energy's 
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
               The MSP Theft Campaign 
    7. In order to conduct the MSP Theft Campaign, members of 
the APT10 Group, including ZHU HUA, a/k/a "Afwar," a/k/a "CVNX," 
a/k/a "Alayos," a/k/a "Godkiller," and ZHANG SHILONG, a/k/a 
"Baobeilong," a/k/a "Zhang Jianguo," a/k/a "Atreexp," the

                      10

